Gathering Requirements is Hard Work.
Continuous customer involvement is critical to the project's success.
It's about people, don't lose sight of that,
and focus continuously on the customer.
How do you involve and engage the customer?
There are two key steps in engaging the customer.
Step 1: Determine who the customer is.
The customer will be wearing many hats.
Who is the true end user of the system?
Who will actually be using the keyboarding, clicking the mouse?
Who is the user's representative on this project?
Is it a scrum product manager or a business representative?
Who is funding this project?
What budget or budgets is the money coming from?
Who is responsible for what tools and processes that are to be used?
If you can answer these questions it will help you determine
the overall and varied set of expectations,
which you need to understand to properly advance the requirements process.
Step 2: Communicate effectively, clearly, and regularly.
You must figure that out.
It could be daily, weekly, etc.
based on the customer's role.
Written, verbal,
and face-to-face discussions help you ensure you are
collecting quality requirements.
Determining and understanding the stakeholders and effective
communication are critical to your success,
so let's dive deeper into both.
Nailing Down All of the Stakeholders.
Most projects have a fairly diverse set of stakeholders.
Let's explore three groupings of stakeholders.
The first is the product owner stakeholder.
This is the primary representative of the
stakeholders and therefore the stakeholder.
This role should be the focal point for all functional and system requirements.
This role would also ensure requirements and expectations
are aligned with other stakeholders.
This is your key stakeholder.
This is the person you must spend the most of your time with or receive
direction as to what subject matter experts to engage.
You should be joined at the hip.
The second is the End user (aka system) stakeholders.
Notice I said stakeholders, plural.
Typically there is only one product owner stakeholder,
but many end user stakeholders.
For example, a manager, accountant, point-of-sale clerk, etc.
End user stakeholders will use the system hands on,
will consume the result or outcome of the system,
such as reports, work queues, other system interfaces,
will be affected by its implementation.
For example,
your desktop and network organization needs to implement an equipment roll out.
Lastly, the project stakeholders.
Those have a vested interest during the project
lifecycle of developing the system.
For example, it may include those responsible for training end users,
marketing, selling, installing and supporting the system.
Also, executive management guiding and funding the project.
So when you start your journey on gathering requirements make
a list of all of the candidate stakeholders and meet and talk
with each of them frequently.
Communicate Effectively.
As the key analysts gather requirements you will need highly effective
communication skills to translate user and business objectives into a level of
detail to be understood by not only the stakeholders,
but ultimately your software development team.
I am sure you are familiar with these communication methods,
but let's discuss their pros and cons.
Face to face meetings.
I find face to face meetings always the best.
I know we are really busy, but try and make it a priority.
Workshops.
Workshops use whiteboards or simple prototype tools to quickly
gather and make visually available information.
They should be used early and often in the requirements gathering process.
Telephone/voice mail.
Always good for filling in the gaps,
but lengthy telecons are not very productive.
Email.
Always followup with your customer encounters with your
notes documenting the discussion, action item,
and agreements.
Don't over use email in place of face to face or the phone.
Presentations.
This is a form of face to face that can be used to provide status to the
stakeholders and encourage discussion and guidance.
Stand ups.
Impromptu discussions to quickly clarify requirements.
I love stand ups.
Instant messaging.
If your organization uses text messaging within the firewall,
then this could work for you for quick confirmations,
clarifications, and status updates.
Web conferencing.
If you can't do face to face then web conferencing is the next best thing.
Text messaging.
I'm not a fan of texting for the requirements process,
but maybe only for meeting alerts or things like that.
Wikis.
To me project wikis are a little too unstructured,
unmanaged, and unfocused, but give it a try if you can,
and it just might work for you.
Custom requirements portal would be of great help of
centralizing the requirements documentation,
plans, and status, and it would be easy to share.
Which of these options will facilitate connecting
with your stakeholders the best?
Each of these methods has pros and cons,
but as much as possible, engage your customer face to face.
You will receive the biggest return on your time
investment especially early in the project when you are
building your initial relationships, connections, and trust.